# Summary of "Algorand: Scaling Byzantine Agreements for Cryptocurrencies"

## Relevant Background

Blockchain is a publicly verifiable record of transactions that is distributed, decentralized, and non-repudiable. In recent years, this technology has been used to develop electronic cryptographic currencies, and has also been applied to various other use cases in banking and healthcare. The security of these systems relies on the infeasibility of intensive cryptographic computations. Current research in this area aims to improve the time-complexity of such systems without compromising the various security properties of the blockchain.

## Main Contribution

This paper offers a new cryptocurrency called Algorand which uses cryptographic sortition and a novel Byzantine agreement protocol (a main contribution of the paper called BA\*) to achieve higher transaction throughput and a shorter latency period than Bitcoin.

## Tools

### Cryptographic Sortition

Cryptographic sortition is an algorithm for randomly selecting a subset of users from a universe of users based on each user's associated weight and private key. In this scheme, the "weight" of each user corresponds to the fraction of currency in circulation owned by that user. This algorithm uses verifiable random functions to randomly select a hash from a random seed, as well as a proof that the hash corresponds to that seed. Then, the hash is mapped to one of the users based on intervals of numbers assigned to each user with sizes corresponding to the user's weight.

Sortition is performed in this manner because it helps achieve two desirable results. The first is that, according to this protocol, users are selected with probability proportional to their weight, as needed, in a non-interactive but verifiable way. Second, the adversary, without knowledge of the private key used to compute the verifiable random function, cannot anticipate which users will be selected better than guessing totally randomly based on the weight of each user.

### Block Proposal

The cryptographic sortition tool described above is used to select committee members to perform BA\*, described below. The members of the selected committee broadcast blocks to be added to the blockchain, and then BA\* is used to achieve consensus on the proposed block. A block must be proposed in every round in order to satisfy liveness, and so sortition uses parameters that guarantee that at least some threshold number of users on the selected committee in each run of this algorithm. If too many blocks are proposed, user's weights are used to assign priority to higher-weighted users.

Even if a disproportionate number of members in the selected committee are malicious, the worst possible outcome is that multiple blocks will be proposed upon initializing BA\*. As shown below, this will cause the committee to agree on an empty block which does not result in a false transaction being posted to the ledger. Furthermore, this happens only a small fraction of the time.

### BA*

BA\* is an algorithm that is invoked by Algorand, and is used to compute a block that is either classified as "final" or "tentative." Final blocks have standard consensus guarantees, whereas tentative blocks do not guarantee safety (different honest parties can agree on different tentative blocks). 

The algorithm consists of various phases. First, a reduction algorithm is used to propose and propogate a block to all members of the committee chosen by the sortition algorithm. All users in the system can observe the message passed during the gossiping of the block, and can verify the signatures on the blocks and arrive at the same consensus decision. The message that is gossiped is either the hash of a block with a transaction, or the hash of an empty block. This hash is then passed as input to another algorithm called BinaryBA\* which runs in steps. In each step, the users vote on the hashes of the block (votes weighted by the user's wealth) to decide on a block. If enough votes are cast for the non-empty block within a certain number of steps, the non-empty block is added to the ledger. Otherwise, the empty block is added to the ledger. Liveness guarantees that within a certain amount of time, a new block is added to the chain.

## Algorand

### Bootstrapping

Algorand's bootstrapping protocol assigns public and private key pairs to each of the users in its system and runs an algorithm to connect each user to 4 random peers. Thus, each user is expected to have 8 neighbors, on average. This network is used for gossiping messages among the users.

When new users join the protocol, they can obtain the information needed to participate by obtaining a certficate for the most recent block added to the chain. Because each block is a culmination of all the previous blocks, a certified final block is all that is needed for a new user to join the system.

### Safety and Liveness

The paper makes assumptions about the synchronicity of the system. It assumes that there are periods of time where communication is strongly synchronous and weakly synchronous, and it further assumes that the strongly synchronous period last on the order of days while the weakly synchronous periods last on the order of an hour. Both of these assumptions are probabilitic, thus there is no guarantee that these will always hold true.

As a consequence of these assumptions, BA\* may create forks in the blockchain in situations where the network is not strongly synchronous when it is presumed to be so. In such cases, only tentative consensus can be achieved. Though this does not violate safety, it does affect liveness because it prevents users from voting on new blocks by creating a fork in the chain - two non-overlapping groups of honest users with differing last-blocks.

In order to mollify this issue, Algorand periodically regulates the system by proposing a new fork to which all users must switch. The fork proposer is selected in an analogous way to that in which the block proposer is selected.

### DoS Attacks on the Gossip Network

A denial of service attack can be performed by an adversary by polluting the gossip network with garbage messages. If the volume of these messages exhausts bandwidth resources, then honest messages can no longer be propagated, thereby obstructing the creation of new blocks and violating liveness.

In order to avoid DoS attacks on the gossip network, Algorand requires that messages be verified at each node before the node relays the message according to the gossiping protocol.

## Performance

Algorand's throughput rate is 125 times greater than that of Bitcoin and its latency period per transaction block is well under a minute. Moreover, latency remains nearly constant as the number of users increases, indicating that Algorand scales well.

It is important to note that Algorand does not protect against Sybil attacks because nothing prevents an adversary from joining the gossip network under multiple identities. However, the number of adversary-owned currency is bounded, allowing Algorand to maintain safety in its proof of security.

## Citation

Gilad, Y., Hemo, R., Micali, S., Vlachos, G., Zeldovich, N: Algorand: Scaling Byzantine Agreements for Cryptocurrencies. In: Proceedings of the 26th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP ’17). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 51–68. (2017), [http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/3132747.3132757](http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/3132747.3132757)
