# Summary of "YODA: Enabling computationally intensive contracts on blockchains with Byzantine and Selfish nodes"

## Relevant Background

Prior research on distributed ledgers aim to achieve consensus in the Byzantine model. In particular, these works strive to construct a decentralized system that maintain consistency and correctness in the presence of an adaptive, corruptive adversary. However, such schemes are not necessarily realistic. In practice, nodes are more likely to be rational and desire to maximize their own interests. The Byzantine, Altruistic, Rational (BAR) adversarial model is a more reasonable depiction of the real world. It allows nodes to model the typical Byzantine behavior talked about in the literature (an adversary that can perform the worst possible damage), but also discusses the behavior and impact of processes that are honest or self-interested.

## Main Contribution

YODA is a protocol that enables permissionless blockchains to execute computationally intensive smart contracts (CICs) in the BAR model. CICs are different from traditional transactions in that they are not necessarily easy to verify, and therefore require much more computational resources. YODA allows these contracts, such as machine learning algorithms or zero-knowledge proofs, to be computed off-chain.

## Tools

### MiRACLE

This is a sub-protocol that is run by a subset of all nodes in the system. This subset is called the Execution Set (ES), and it requires each node in the ES to execute some function of _x_, say _f(x)_. The goal is to achieve consensus on the true value of _f(x)_ with a protocol that has termination, agreement, validity, and efficiency (each defined as usual, and efficiency requires _optimal_ number of rounds). The protocol proceeds in rounds, as follows:

...

### RICE

...

## CIC Primer

...

## Implementation

...

## Performance

...

## Citation

Kokoris-Kogias, E., Jovanovic, P., Gasser, L., Gailly, N., Syta, E., Ford, B: OmniLedger: A Secure, Scale-Out, Decentralized Ledger via Sharding. In 2018 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P), pages 19–34. (2018), [https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/406.pdf](https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/406.pdf)
