# Summary of "Hawk: The Blockchain Model of Cryptography and Privacy-Preserving Smart Contracts"

## Relevant Background

Blockchain technology can be used to perform transactions via a distributed, decentralized mechanism with certain security guarantees (such as nonrepudiation and public verifiability). However, such systems do not allow users to transact anonymously nor privately. We have seen newer systems, such as Zerocash, that enable this kind of functionality, but systems like Zerocash are not programmable (i.e. it cannot be outsourced by a user without knowledge of the cryptographic infrastructure). Likewise, programmable systems such as Ethereum do not have anonymity nor privacy guarantees.

## Main Contribution

Hawk offers a programmable logic for implementing secure, decentralized, private transactions assuming access to a trusted available public ledger. This application can be used by any programmer without a background in cryptography to implement cryptographically secure and privacy-preserving smart contracts. Furthermore, the paper in which Hawk is introduced also gives a formal outline of the blockchain model of cryptography, defining function wrappers and cryptographic abstractions of private transactions.

## Tools

### The Blockchain Model of Cryptography

* Components

* Function Wrappers

### Cryptography Abstractions Implemented in Hawk

## Hawk

...

## Implementation and Performance

Hawk is implemnted in two parts: the public component is written in Serpent and is compatible with existing public blockchains whereas the private component is written in C and is given as input to the Pinnochio arithmetic circuit compiler. For this reason the private smart contracts in this system are limited by the functionality of Pinnochio (i.e. they cannot handle dynamic-length loops). The resulting arithmetic circuit is then augmented with the blockchain (e.g. Ethereum) by adding an opcode to the language that signifies the need for a zkSNARK, drawn from Libsnark.



## Citation

A. Kosba, A. Miller, E. Shi, Z. Wen, C. Papamanthou, Hawk: The blockchain model of cryptography and privacy-preserving smart contracts. In: Proceedings of IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pp. 839-858. (2016), [https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7546538](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7546538)
